# MURDER-IN-SQL-CITY
•	Upon importing the database, I reviewed the contents of each table to determine where to begin my investigation. I found the crime_scene_report table to be an ideal starting point, as it provided details regarding the location, date, and witnesses associated with the murder. As I had only a vague recollection of the type of crime, day, and city, I executed a query to extract relevant information, and the resulting output provided valuable insights into the case.
The output generated by the code snippet revealed that the crime_scene_report table contains a column named "description", which states that two witnesses were present at the scene of the crime. The security footage provided further details, indicating that the first witness resides in the final house on Northwestern Drive. Additionally, the second witness, identified as Annabel, lives somewhere on Franklin Avenue.

SELECT date, type, description, city
from crime_scene_report
WHERE date = "20180115" AND city = "SQL City" AND type ="murder";

The above code snippet gave produces the insight below

•	After obtaining information about the witnesses' presence at the crime scene from the crime_scene_report table, the subsequent step was to gather more details about them, including their names.
SELECT * from person

WHERE address_street_name = "Franklin Ave" or address_street_name = "Northwestern Dr"

ORDER BY address_number ASC;

Based on the execution of the query, the identity of the witnesses was determined. The first witness was identified as Morty Schapiro, with an associated ID number of "14887". Similarly, the second witness was identified as Annabel Miller, with an ID number of "16371".

•	Based on interviews conducted with the witnesses, it was revealed that the perpetrator of the crime is likely to be a gold member of the "Get-fit-now" gym. A query was executed to obtain this information and it can be used as a lead to investigate potential suspects associated with the gym's gold membership.

SELECT * FROM interview

where person_id = "14887" OR person_id = "16371"

Morty Schapiro had this to say:” I heard a gunshot and then saw a man run out. He had a "Get Fit Now Gym" bag. The membership number on the bag started with "48Z". Only gold members have those bags. The man got into a car with a plate that included "H42W".”
Annabel Miller had this to say: “I saw the murder happen, and I recognized the killer from my gym when I was working out last week on January the 9th.”

•	With the information obtained from the witnesses, I proceeded to investigate the "Get_fit_now" and "Get_fit_now_check_in" tables to identify the perpetrator of the crime. After executing a query, I narrowed down the list of potential suspects to two individuals who had checked into the gym on January 9th, 2018, and had gym memberships starting with the prefix "48Z".

SELECT * from get_fit_now_check_in

WHERE check_in_date = "20180109" and membership_id like "48Z%"

These two members being 48Z7A & 48Z55

•	I joined the "Person" table and the "Get_fit_now_member" table to identify the personal details of the two members with gym membership IDs starting with "48Z", namely "48Z7A" and "48Z55".
SELECT * FROM person 
INNER join get_fit_now_member  
ON get_fit_now_member.person_id = person.id 
where get_fit_now_member.id = "48Z55" OR get_fit_now_member.id = "48Z7A" 
 
They are “Jeremy Bowers” and “Joe Germuska”. 
Jeremy’s details are as follows:  
a.	license id: 423327  
b.	address number: 530 
c.	address_street_name: Washington Pl, Apt 3A 
d.	ssn: 871539279 
Joe’s details are as follows: 
a.	license id: 173289 
b.	address number: 111 
c.	address_street_name: Fisk Rd 
d.	ssn: 138909730 

•	Morty provided information that the suspect was a male who left the crime scene in a car with a license plate containing "H42W". After executing a query, it was discovered that there were three license plates that matched the provided criteria.
SELECT * FROM drivers_license 
WHERE plate_number like "%H42W%" 

After evaluating the results of the query, it was determined that the license plates matching the provided criteria were associated with a Toyota Prius, a Chevrolet Spark LS, and a Nissan Altima. The Prius was ruled out since the witness saw a male leaving the gym. Thus, the suspects are the owners of the Chevrolet Spark LS and the Nissan Altima.
•	To determine the owners of the Chevrolet Spark LS and Nissan Altima, I joined the person table with the drivers_license table. See code snippet below:
SELECT * from person 
JOIN drivers_license 
ON person.license_id = drivers_license.id 
where person.license_id = "423327" or person.license_id = "664760" 

As anticipated, it was found that one of the suspects identified earlier, Jeremy Bowers, owns one of the vehicles while the other vehicle belongs to Tushar Chandra.

•	I checked if Tushar Chandra was a member of Get-Fit-Now gym using the code below, but the result set was empty, indicating that the name was not on the list.
SELECT * FROM get_fit_now_member 
WHERE name = “Tushar Chandra” 

To recap, the suspect is a male gold member of Get-Fit-Now gym seen escaping in a vehicle with license plate containing "H42W". Two males in the gym membership class fit the description - Jeremy Bowers and Joe Germuska. Narrowing down the search to the vehicles led to two names - Jeremy Bowers and Tushar Chandra. Tushar is not a member of the gym.
Jeremy Bowers, a male gold member of the Get-Fit-Now gym, was identified as the prime suspect who fled the scene in a vehicle with license plate containing characters “H42W”. His license plate number is “4H42WR” and he has a membership id of “48Z55”. His residence is on Washington Pl, Apt 3A, and his Social Security Number is 871539279.
I used the following query to confirm.
INSERT INTO solution (user, value) 
VALUES ("1", "Jeremy Bowers") 
SELECT * FROM solution

The input from the select statement below has revealed a new perspective:
“Congrats, you found the murderer! But wait, there's more... If you think you're up for a challenge, try querying the interview transcript of the murderer to find the real villain behind this crime. If you feel especially confident in your SQL skills, try to complete this final step with no more than 2 queries. Use this same INSERT statement with your new suspect to check your answer.” 
